About the program:
Opus8 was written in Pascal and compiled with the PCQ PD compiler. I am a big
Bloom County fan, so that's where I got the name. It is easy to use. All you do
is type "Opus8 <MacSound> <IFF sound> <Hz>". Then just run the sounds with
your favorite sound player.

About the frequency:
Typically, Macintosh sounds are sampled at four frequencies. They are :
    22.2 kHz
    11.1 kHz
     7.2 kHz
     5.7 kHz.
Rarely will you find a sound sampled at another rate.

About the sound examples:
I used a friend's SuperDrive to copy the examples to MS-DOS then Dos-2-Dos to
get them on my Amiga. Here are the frequencies so you can convert them
yourself:
	    Pig-Ignorance.mac	      11100 Hz
	    HAL.Sorry.mac	      11100 Hz
If you want more sounds I have a few more disks of them just drop me a
letter (and a little cash:disks, mailers, postage[More than three bucks
will be dandy.]) and I'll send some along. There are Monty Python sounds,
Doctor Who sounds, 2001 sounds, Bodily Functions, Song Clips, etc.

About the problems:
IF you hear a pop at the beginning of the converted sound, you probably
downloaded the sound, or that is the way the sound is. My program does not
yet strip the DeskTop info off the file, and probably will not. Stuff
copied with the Apple SuperDrive will be perfectly fine. Though I am not
sure about Mac-2-DOS, but I will find out.

Also, do not make Opus8 resident and then run it with sounds on the RAM DISK.
I have not got the foggiest idea why it doesn't work, but it will run and then
the IFF sound cannot be found by any program, but it does show up on Dir and
List. Why, I hear you ask. I do not know. So don't do it.

Donations:
Donations will be graciously accepted. I will send you more sounds and any
upgrades I make. I also need a harddrive. Please help.

Distrubution:
You may distribute this as long as you keep these files together. You may
put this program in your PD collection as long as you do not charge more
than $5 for the disk it is on. It is my program, I wrote it, I make the
rules for it. Capice(?)?

For the future:
A Workbench interface. Amiga to Mac. IBM AdLib sounds. Using the memory a
little bit better.

Running on the Amiga 3000:
This program works fine on the 3000, but the disk drive slows it down. The
program reads and converts 1K blocks but that might change in the future.

Thanks:
Thanks go out to Kerry and Ian for the Mac sounds. One for Mark for the use
of his Mac IIsi. To Patrick Quaid for the help with the program and for
the compiler. To Ken for the use of his Amiga 3000, and for scanning the
pictures for the icon. And to Rebecca for being so nice. Thanks.

About the author:
My name is John Safranek. I am a Leo. I am a Senior in high school. I've had a
year a BASIC and a Semester and a half of Pascal in school. And blowing my own
horn: this is a great first program. Thank you.

Address: NOTE this address will change in June 1992. I graduate.

		     John A. Safranek
		     c/o Maj NJ Safranek
		     2nd General Hospital
		     CMR-402 Box 770
		     APO, AE  09180

November 23, 1991

Register to VOTE. Zappa  '92.
